---
layout: post
title:  "Keytap: acoustic keyboard eavesdropping"
date:   2018-11-24 13:00:00 +0200
htmlarr:
- keytap-gui.html
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Description</h1>

The sound emitted by keystrokes can potentially be used to perform a side channel attack for guessing the text being
typed. This page runs a program that demonstrates such type of an attack.

First, type some text in the canvas below to train the prediction model. Don't type super fast - it's recommended to try
a *Hunt and Peck* style of typing first to at least get some positive results. The program will try to predict keys
which have been pressed at least 3 times.

When ready with typing the training data, click the *Pedict* button, wait for the model to train and continue typing
outside the browser window. The program will continuously try to guess what is being typed by only analyzing the audio
capture from the page.

Currently, the code is not very portable, so please read the requirements below and make sure you meet them.  Also, this
is a proof-of-concept and probably won't work effectively in all environments.  It does work pretty good on my setup
though - iMac, Filco mechanical keyboard, built-in mic.

<h1>Requirements</h1>

<li>Non-mobile browser supporting pthreads with WebAssembly (i.e. Chrome or Firefox Nightly)</li>
<li>Mechanical keyboard</li>
<li>Microphone (increase input level to max)</li>

<br>
To enable WebAssembly pthreads and SharedArrayBuffer support, check this [page](https://github.com/kripken/emscripten/wiki/Pthreads-with-WebAssembly/).

[<i><b>Updated:</b> 2 Dec 2018</i>]
[Video: a working setup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2OjzI9m7W10)

<h1>Demo</h1>
